---
title: Ha-Ha This A Way
date: 2024-06-07
categories: [devlog, getting started]
tags: [C++,cpp,c plus plus,game dev,game development,devlog,blog]
---

# Welcome

 to the first post in my DevLog. Things have not started out all that well. What was supposed to be a quick job - setting this up - has taken close to six hours (so far).

I use quick relatively. I have enough experience to know it would probably take longer than I thought it should. A few hours at least - just not the best part of a day. Probably a full work day or more by the time I'm done.

## Episode Umpteen: An Old Foe ... Again

I have quite a lot of personal and zero professional coding experience. I've accumulated quite the breadth of knowledge but, when in comes to applying myself to a more specific project, I have identified two major problems to date:

1. **I easily get overwhelmed with choice.** Should I learn C or C++ or C# or React? No wait, I should probably really nail down my JavaScript if I'm going to try to learn react. What about ECMA and TypeScript? And so on, and so on.
2. **I don't feel like I am making progress.** Even when I settle on a path of action it isn't long before it feels like I would be better off - making more headway - if I was in a different lane.

Taking a moment to re-asses my behaviours (which I have historically seen as personal failings) they may well be symptomatic of my neurodivergence. After 18 months (give or take, I'm not looking it up) I am still waiting to see a professional who will be able to provide an official diagnosis. But, rather than beat my head against the same wall one more time for luck, something different seems in order.

## Python Power, Straight From Monty

I wouldn't say I necessarily thrive in an academic environment. There are other variables in play. However, it does mitigate the two specific problems noted above.

On the one hand, there is no choice - or, certainly, restricted choice: I just have to do what I am told, use the language/framework/book/whatever as instructed. This can cause new, different friction, but handily eliminates the issue of choice.

And, on the other, there is a timetable with clear goals and learning objectives that lead to assessments and feedback. These are both a good indication of what progress is being made and a looming entity ready to pass judgment if milestones are missed - incidentally similar to the concept of [Body Doubling](https://add.org/the-body-double/).

Easy, then, just get back into academia. Go to college or university. And, that is an awesome idea, except for the issue of the tens of thousands of currency units I simply do not have.

## But, How Did We Get *Here*?

Committing to this DevLog means people might be watching ... and judging. And, that potential may fill a similar psychological niche. It might help me to reflect more honestly on the progress I have made - so I feel less like I am spinning my wheels. And, actually writing out my thoughts and conclusions might narrow choices and formulate the whole process into a manageable sequences.

Of course, it might just act as a time sink for my procrastination. Some rules then:

1. **MAX** 10 mins in every hour of work spent logging
2. Logging is not faffing, potching, finagling, doodling or otherwise messing about; get the text down and published
3. Good enough is enough

## Of Mice And Men

A plan going forward. It's Friday today, so I can have till Monday to get this working how I would like:

* Remove unused links from the template
* Make sure each section that exists is populated
* Square up the avatar
* Fix the Favicon
* Change root
* **BONUS** Get comments working

Then, first step on Monday (or, sooner with a following wind). Put together my scheme of learning. Identify subject areas, choose learning resources and commit to a timetable. Feels a bit nebulous - like maybe I've forgotten something - but should be enough to be getting on with.
